# Better Government Education Discussion
Friday, August 4 at 11 a.m. EST

### PURPOSE
To uncover opportunities to share or collaborate amongst the Lab@OPM, the Policy Design Lab, and GSA for provide top-notch innovation-related training that may be complementary with the Better Government movement. By the end of this meeting, we should have a better idea of various paths forward. 

### AGENDA
1. Introductions (PDL & Lab@ OPM) (5 Minutes)
2. Update (to bring us current) on Better Government Movement (Amy) (10 Minutes)
3. Lab@OPM update/ training plan (15 Minutes)
4. PDL update/ explain near-term plans (15 Minutes)
5. Discussion and brainstorm (10 Minutes)
6. Next Steps and Action Items (5 Minutes)

### In Attendance: 
* Amy Wilson, Kelly Olson, and Bethany Blakey, GSA
* Sydney Smith-Heimbrock and Enrique Martinez, Lab@OPM
* Philip Auerswald and Caraleigh Holverson, Policy Design Lab

## Better Government Movement (Amy) and Ambassadors Program (Bethany) Updates
The Better Government Movement is in full swing: we're on target to launch Innovation.gov in the next month, this week we held a CoP listening session, the Toolkit peer review was launched (out in October), and finally we have a team of three great women who are leading the charge on the Ambassadors Program. We're moving forward with four main verticals: 

1. **Create a 21st century culture and workforce** (Better hiring practices: hiring a Chief Innovation Officer, Tour of Duty hiring; Improve ways that contracting and acquisitions is done; Incentivize people to innovate and overcome barriers to innovation)
2. **Improve government services delivery** (Design user-centered programs, products and services that speak directly to the public’s needs; Amplify proven innovative disciplines, methods, and tools such as Lean and Agile approaches; Support creation of innovative labs, programs, and services; hire top talent to lead innovation; Encourage data-informed decision making and evidence-based approaches to contribute to your story)
3. **Solve complex societal and governmental problems** (Identify and pursue grand challenges to address national priorities and tackle societal problems; Lessen siloed thinking across government and encourage cross-agency collaboration; Address common government challenges and share expertise; Lead research and design to solve current challenges and to solve the challenges of the future)
4. **Collaborate with innovators outside government** (Harness the creativity of the public through incentivized competitions/challenges; Empower innovators with open and machine-readable Federal data; Launch high-impact multi-sector collaborations)

### Ambassadors Program Update (Bethany Blakey)
This week, the Ambassadors Program team met to plan out the 

1. Recruiting the right people (half dozen early Ambassadors)
2. Determine which types of people we need for the program: (high level influencers or enablers)
3. Determine what they should do, find them, then support them--to create a program by and for Ambassadors
4. Thinking of borrowing an innovation maturity model for Ambassadors to look at an organization and diagnose stages of maturity.

Sydney suggested that we reach out and use the network of Innovation Lab Directors to tap into the innovation practitioners and spread the word. 

## Lab@OPM Education Background (Sydney Smith-Heimbrock and Enrique Martinez)
The Lab@OPM was created in 2012 and have trained thousands of people in their Human-Centered Design (HCD) Federal cirriculum (mostly in civil society but also individuals in the intelligence community). Teaching is mostly done in 3-day HCD workshops that teaches the fundamentals of the practice. 

Enrique joined about one year ago from the Rhode Island School of Design. Working on a HCD maturity and competency model to apply learning and leading HCD. Launching a series of course modules in the Fall. 

We talk about using the word "Design Education" rather than training. Training implies something tactical and skills-based. We want to create transformative experiences and to look at the potential of design. We're looking for intentional learning, educational training modules. There are two pillars we focus on:
1. Project-based learning challenges: How to apply HCD to agency or office's problems. Not consulting but adult-based learning. The scoping of challenges through implmentation and learning (workshop based)
2. We're leading conversations around workforce development and design. We create education around movement for influence and impact, for professional development. We're thought leaders in this regard.

Our North Star is building the capability in the Federal Workforce, the 100,000 Civilian employees a year. We work with the Center for Leadership Development, and thus have a statutory obligation to recover all costs (Employee Training Act). We must break even every 3 years, but strive to break even every year so we can continue our programming and invest in our capabilities. We're recovering costs so we can create a effective workforce, which is our mission in many ways. Our role is in shaping conversation between workforce development and design

The Performance Improvement Council (Bethany is on that team) does NOT charge for their trainings and workshops--they are contributing towards agencies needs. Amy chimed in with saying that the GSA Innovation Portfolio is appropriated funds so we can provide free training for good-for-government services, like DigitalGov has Digital Gov University. 

## Policy Design Lab (Caraleigh and Phil)
* The Policy Design Lab (PDL) was tasked with writing the OSTP reports on 17 verticals on topics like evidence-based approaches to innovation, to hiring a CINO, etc. Almost none of the reports appear to focus on policy awareness. 
* Their philosophy is rooted in academia where existing models aren't moving fast enough, and there needs to a reality change in higher education. PDL looks for transformative experiences--to disrupt or advance academia. They're hoping to introduce competency demands on existing training and ways to deliver that is relational and useful. 
* They hope to pilot short courses similar to General Assembly courses, validate it and look at the landscape to focus the cirriculum and work at the adjacencies. Short course offerings are mostly what they have an interest in, to test demand and explore innovative models--learn Federal agencies capacity and mandates at scale. Help support emergence and cooperative advantages, and entice and enable the use of the toolkit and the tools provided. If we’re collaborating together with the government, see where people are meeting and need them. 
* In effect, we serve as prototypers on topics that OPM and others can’t get to. To get an accelerator. People are needing that we can’t get there yet. 



## General Education conversation
* Bethany: Magic in training is to change the culture of or teach teams as opposed to individual, as a person who is a solo person in the organization fighting an uphill battle. Doing the training together is more impactful. 
* What we’re finding open enrollment classroom is good for the first step of generating awareness. More advanced learning around deep individual maturity in specialty areas of design. What happens in the middle is the teamwork. People need tone able to bring a whole team of people to build buffer around them to practice design skills in new approach. The team gives them that. Interesting dynamic.
* Sydney: People come into foundations workshop. Come back to us to do project based learning. Members of that team—this is what we want to do the rest of their life. Do deeper learning. 
* Team learning is momentum going to the larger organization to make change happen.
* Create baked-in motivation and not reinventing the wheel.

## Next Steps
* Look at possible areas of overlap or complimentary workstreams between the three groups.
* Suggested having a longer 2-3 hour workshop the week of August 14 so that we can do a deeper dive into the overlap and determine our next steps. 
* Sydney will share with team her availability since she's more restrictive. 
* Amy will schedule a meeting in GSA HQ for all parties to participate. 
