# June 5 CoP Meeting

Date/Time: June 5, 3-5 p.m. GSA HQ 4250

Attendees: Jay Benforado, EPA; Sydney Smith-Heimbrock, OPM; Ken Wright, OSTP; Carolyn Fleming-Williams, OMB; Courtney Greenley, USACE; Pamela Crawford, CMS; Brooke Dine, NIH; Amy Wilson, GSA; Julia Begley, CFPB

Agenda: 
I. Content Development Timeline
II. Personas + Value Proposition
III. Information Architecture
IV. Templates: Content + Case Study

## Content Development Timeline
* July 31, launch of Innovation.gov which includes
  * Better Government Playbook (6 Plays/Principles)
  * Landscape Analysis 
  * Innovation Blog (Meta, Org., Individual Stories)
* September 29, Release 1
  * Updated Information Architecture + Journey Maps
  * 10-15 Content Areas (filled out with templates)
  * Case Studies

##  Personas finalization and Value Proposition 
* Leadership and COP have developed 5 personas
* Finalize personas and create journey maps for how they would interact with toolkit for each by August 15
* Created Open Opportunity - Looking for UX-savvy innovators to help create personas and journey maps
* If interested in role, please let Brooke Dine or Michelle Ramsden know
* Amy introduced the concept of the [Value Proposition Canvas](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aN36EcTE54Q), a tool used in the startup community to identify the desires and needs of the customer segments for answer WHY we're building our product and then on the left hand side is WHAT we're trying to build, or the value proposition for the customer segments. If you have a mix between what the customers/user WANT and then what the product OFFERS, then you have problem-solution fit. 
* To get started with the group, Amy reviewed each of the personas and asked: 
  * What pain points does this persona have that the Toolkit would solve?
  * What are they hoping to gain from using the Toolkit?
  * What kinds of information would they go to our Toolkit for?

## Sam Chen, Mid-Level Manager

### Pain Points
* Lack of support
* Culture mindset not supporting innovation
* Risk averse culture
* Pressed for time
* Efficiency and innovation
* Lack of innovation 
* Team lack of enthusaism for innovation focus

### Gains
* Emotions
* Support best practices approach
* Wants advancement
* In a culture not receptive
* Connect and hear stories

### Information 
* Model for hiring talent acquisitions
* Categorized procurement
* Looking to do streamlined processes
* New IT technology--know what to get

## Angela Martin

### Pain Points
* Contextualize what innovation could/should be
* Why is innovation different--that it's not a fad
* Public perception of agency 
* Data of impact of innnovation efforts
* Depends on the agency 

### Gains
* How to innovate effecively and quickly with better outcomes 
* Improve and evaluate performance
* have data or show data to increase funding
* Performance data
* Add to legacy 
* Look for something new and don't know how 
* What does she have to lose?

### Information
* Low hanging fruit--things that are easy
* Innovation offset budget cuts--why this shouldn't be cut and will result in cost reduction

## Kelly Smith, Senior Executive

### Pain Points
* Legitamacy for her innovation tools with backing
* Wants support for her manager--doesn't get attention
* Frustrated with bureaucracy. Wants to over come and conquer.

### Gains
* Innovation network share ideas
* Social impact, early in her career
* Put together an action plan for manager
* Need support networking/storeis on the toolkit
* Gain legitamacy of thinking and ideas
* Manage up 

### Information
* How to work within culture and to keep motivated
* How to build and sustain innovation
* Support network, to meet other people like her
* People around her are jaded, how to manage that
* How to market and pitch her ideas in government

## Keisha Norton, Government Innovator

### Pain Points
* Frustrated by the old guard (not Product Managers)
* Not networked in with people who can make what she wants to do a reality (ones who are the Laggards, 30 years older)
* How to innovate, work, create and share new ideas
* So much she could/should do. How to make it easier to do more with less
* Work/life balance--how to work more efficiently, impact early or in office
* Status

### Gains
* Help to stay sane, new connections to creativity and innovation
* Motivation
* How to stay fresh and current
* Reinforcement network of people, people to bounce ideas off of

### Information
* Innovative ideas to spark her organization. Information on what that is
* Address lack of diversity and inclusion--link to what makes things innovative and effectiveness

## George Contreras, Average Employee (NOTE: Most important persona--important to reach these people. Need 2-3 more personas in this place)
* This persona is not sharp enough. These people are not the natural innovators
* These people are the doers--do things in a better way.
* 2nd line, first bullet: Behaviors are emotive or empathetic, wants social connections
* Affected community work. Personal life is first, then work.
* It's a mindset? Should bring new ideas forward
* Don't recognize "innovation" in the same sense as the innovators. It's something else that they do every day. (doesn't use the work "innovation" to describe what she does)

### Pain Points
* No promotions, What do I need to do? 
* I want to improve things, but not sure how
* Diagnostic tools. Where are we on a spectrum on process improvement?
* Is the re a tool--wizard to find out what they want to do
* Needs tools to get over the morass of being stuck
* Personal pain--doesn't know how to do "innovation"

### Gains
* Get new ideas, demonstrate interactivity 
* Personal gains--has a vision but does not know how to enact it 
* Isn't usually a discussion 
* Communications--framing to be effective, to pitch ideas
* Just wants to do their jobs well and be respected by peers 

### Information
* They don't know about innovation. They want to know where they are and what they need.
* How do you make them care/apply guidance and have easily accessible support
* Decision tree
* Not recreate teh wheel--explain case studies from organizations who have done it so I can sell it to my organizations
* What other organizational have the capacity for other innovations and culture
* Challenges--how do you reach them and get to them? How does it benefit them?
* Motivator

## Information Architecture Feedback
* Plan, Act Evaluate, Check
* Start with stories. Circular loop (Stories, Define, Culture, Stories)
* Individual, Team, Enterprise/Agency
  * Should see if things sort this way.
  * Ask "Who are you" questions
  * In or building a team that want to incorporate it in some way.
  * Address structural and environmental nodes in the system
  * Not sure of the component pieces 
  * Break lists across
* Here's a structure that works: Topic, THEN how to apply it as an Individual, Team, Enterprise/Agency
* 5Ws and H--could be a template for stories, Gets lost in buckets. Doesn't get how it works. Need to rework content to make this framework work. 
* Stories--motivate, tell, people connecting with certain people?
* Structure: How to, connect with networks, engage, definitively answer "why"
* Tool ID use story 

## Discussion on Brand
* Who is going to drive this work? Amy mentioned that this movement is not top-down from the White House, but rather is community led. It was mentioned about Al Gore's VP move to reinvent government. This community-led, grassroots work would be immune from the government's political sway and have people helping people. 
* Brand: P2P model, grassroots, innovators helping innovators. Deep expertise and sharing across the spectrum
* What have we learned?

## Templates Discussed (see Slides)
### Content Template
* Doesn't like the discussion around "future states". Perhaps how to sustain. What's next, long term future states. What is needed to sustain it. What ist he leadership support, how to I get money
* Reverse 3/4 bullets

### Case Study Template
* POC--helpful guidance or help with the process
* CINO at each agency 
* Public vs. Private?--Tag case studies to bounce ideas off of. Talk it through with for advice. 
* Create profiles in Open Opportunities 
