# 5.16 Leadership Team Meeting Talking Points

Agenda

I. Update on progress towards Action Items (Amy)        10 Minutes

II. Landscape Analysis from Lab@OPM (Sydney)         20 Minutes

III. Content Areas discussion (Brooke/Michelle/Amy)     20 Minutes

IV. Next Steps and Action Items (ALL)                            10 Minutes

## I. Review from last Meeting and Action Items

### Content from Last Meeting

- [Notes from the meeting](https://github.com/18F/better-government/blob/master/leadership-meetings/5.10_leadership-planning.md)
- [Presentation found here.](https://github.com/18F/better-government/blob/master/leadership-meetings/%5B5.10%5D%20Better%20Government%20Leadership%20Meeting.pdf)
- [Trello board with backlog of items we brainstormed](https://trello.com/b/WTEhZJIy/better-gov-t-leadership-team-tasks)

### Action Items:

- Tammy
  - Share 24-question survey and link to customer relations database from Granicus
- Sydney
  - Compile Landscape Analysis report/update from Innovation Labs meeting for next week&#39;s Leadership Meeting
- Amy with Brooke and Michelle
  - ID Draft Content with Domains and Leads → Conduct codesign with target customer leads
- Amy with Carolyn and Tammy, Brooke, Michelle (Cc everyone else)
  - Draft COP Invitation include COP mgmt Team and Toolkit Team
- Amy and send to all
  - ID and draft invite for ambassadors plan kickoff
  - Leadership Meeting agenda and invite

## Discussion around Groups

**What is the purpose of each of the three groups?**

- **Community of Practice (Tammie and Carolyn):** To create a space for innovators other people who are doing related work and support for being effective leaders of change.
  - Convene innovators from across the government to learn from each other
  - Support group
  - Tell innovator stories
- **Toolkit/Content (Brooke and Michelle):** To create a virtual resource with authoritative, sample, and replicable documents on topics such as legal/policy/regulations, operational structures, and how to measure their return on investment that they can reuse and adapt to their agency/organization.
  - Define innovation within the government and how to build a culture of innovation
  - Include sample documents that people can adapt and reuse
  - Tell innovators stories/case studies
- **Ambassadors Program (Lisa + Sydney):** To create and train a cohort of innovators from across the government to be change agents to spread innovation across government. Get people on topic areas. 

Need to pull and pull down into something smaller. People getting 
Marketing and communications. People who would shepard content through. After being in government, we might find a few. We're not going to have for a program to be established. 300 agencies/organizations in the government. Need to define what we will have by Sept. 30. 

Tammie will share an example of what that content would look like. 

Need to define: Governance Plan (Amy) pieces. 

**Who do we want to invite?**
* Innovation Labs--send to their networks
* Fellows in Innovation
* 18F, PIF, USDS list servs

**What do we want to get out of this session on June 21st?**
Get people to join in the community of practice 
Agenda: 
* Pitch goal (Amy)
* present objectives, walk through timeline and tools, 
* Break out to refine project plans (small groups)

**How long do we want to meet?**
* Event in June half day 1-5 
* GSA--reserve space.

## II. Landscape Analysis (Sydney)

## III. Toolkit/Content (Brooke, Michelle, Amy)

### Setting the Stage

Approaches to righting the internal plumbing or hacking red tape to lay a firm foundation for a better government.

- Hiring Talent
  - Appoint a &quot;Chief Innovation Officer&quot;
  - Tour of Duty Hiring Models
- Outside Partnerships
  - Public-Private Partnerships
  - Aligning Commitments
  - Engaging Startups and Innovation Labs
- Contracting/ acquisitions

### Things to Try

Programs or products that you can use at your agency to further a better government

- Open Innovation
  - Grand Challenges
  - Prizes and Challenges
  - Citizen Science
- iCorps
- Tiered-evidence &amp; Pay for Success grant programs
- Open data + analytics
- Accelerator Models (internal staff)

### RACI Matrix

The RACI model is a straightforward tool used for identifying roles and responsibilities and avoiding confusion over those roles and responsibilities during a project. The acronym RACI stands for:

- **Responsible** : The person who does the work to achieve the task. They have responsibility for getting the work done or decision made. As a rule this is one person; examples might be a business analyst, application developer or technical architect.
- **Accountable** : The person who is accountable for the correct and thorough completion of the task. This must be one person and is often the project executive or project sponsor. This is the role that responsible is accountable to and approves their work.
- **Consulted** : The people who provide information for the project and with whom there is two-way communication. This is usually several people, often subject matter experts.
- **Informed** : The people kept informed of progress and with whom there is one-way communication. These are people that are affected by the outcome of the tasks, so need to be kept up-to-date.

Without clearly defined roles and responsibilities, it is easy for projects to run into trouble. When people know what management expect of them, it is easier for them to complete their work on time, within budget and to the right level of quality.

A RACI matrix supports the model and is used to discuss, agree and communicate roles and responsibilities. [Read more here](https://www.projectsmart.co.uk/raci-matrix.php).

|   | Responsible | Accountable (Owner) | Consulted | Informed |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Task 1 |   |   |   |   |
| Task 2 |   |   |   |   |
| Task |   |   |   |   |
| Task |   |   |   |   |
| Task |   |   |   |   |
| Task |   |   |   |   |
| Task |   |   |   |   |



## IV. Next Steps
