# Better Government Leadership Meeting Notes

Note: these meeting notes should be accompanied by the Better Government Leadership team slides at: 


In attendance:
* Amy Wilson, GSA Innovation Portfolio
* Pamela Crawford, Social Security Administration
* Virginia Hamilton, Veteran's Affairs
* Ryan Ortega, Federal Drug Administration
* Jay Benforado, Environmental Protection Agency
* Lloyd Whitman, EOP Office of Science and Technology Policy
* Lisa Nelson, GSA Innovation Portfolio
* Courtney Silverthorn, National Insitute of Science and Technology
* Mark Naggar, Health and Human Services Idea Lab
* Brooke Dine, National Institutes of Health
* Blair Corcoran de Castillo, Office of Personnel Management
* Carolyn Fleming-Williams, OMB White House Leadership Development Program

Notes:

During this meeting we will: 
* Shape principles using insights from last workshop
* Collectively align goals and determine objectives
* Understand where we are right now with the reports
* Discuss team roles and responsibilities


## Mission and Principles

* Last session recap: Amy reviewed the problem, target audiences, persona for mid-level manager, the definition of innovation, and the high level content map. 
* Jay noted that the persona is missing the more negative perceptions of the mid-level manager (e.g. stressed, distracted, multitasking).
* Courtney asked how does this work fit in the larger strategy with the Office of American Innovation. Lloyd Whitman from OSTP mentioned that he sees that they are monitoring the actions and discussions coming from the Administration when it comes to this work, and is adding to it as necessary. He also said he sees OSTP as an advisor to this work and GSA leading it. He said we should continue to do great work and he and Ken Wright, career federal employees from OSTP, will point to it as a win for the administration. Amy added that this is a community-led project coming from the practioners within the government, and so its complimentary not duplicative of the other work of government. 
* Carolyn: We should also align ourselves closer to the OMB Guideance on Government Reform. We should link into the proposals to reform and position ourselves to provide comments on that strategy. 
* Courney asked if we have to follow the LRM process (did not know the acronym). When she had to work on another toolkit she had to follow that process which was long and arduous. Possibly with the NSTC track. 

* Amy described new concepts of five governance elements (people, principles, policy, process, and technology). Jay liked the way this is structured and the thought behind it. 
* Discussion around efficiency, effectiveness, and accountability. 
* Amy presented the following mission statement for comment: "Transform the way people work together, guided by principles, with realignment of, or new investment in, policies, processes, and technology to build efficiency and trust in the government."
* Comments are incoporated into the slide presentation with revised statement. 
* Amy also introduced the larger Better Government structure/strategy. Here's the high-level points: 
	* We believe that there should be a better relationship between the public and the government. We shouldn't expect the public to change, just we should understand and change our mindset to keep up with our customer/public's needs. 
	* We do this through:
		* Setting the right leadership and vision for innovation to happen within the government and in agencies. 
		* Creating a knowledge base (the Better Government Toolkit) that includes lessons learned from past experience, but also to map the Public Journey map of the government and agencies. We need to understand the innovation ecosystem of government too.
		* Creating change agent teams that act as catalysts for change throughout government. Create a space where they can flourish and get the confidence to practice innovative practices and spread that across government. 
* Additional comments:
	* Do we or should we have an internal vision statement?
	* Hard to measure trust, so should take it out of mission
	* Make sure we're focused on outcomes
	* Better can be construed as incremental
	* Saving money through crowdsourcing efficiences and values
	* Responsive and collaborative, modern methods
	* The government rarely evolves as the public needs change
	* The government should work for them.
	* Data and behavioral insights--don't include just numbers.
	* Include first-hand accounts.
	* Be wary of saying citizen vs. public. 
* ACTIVITY: Creating a vision statement: Participants were asked to modify a draft vision statement using words that were brainstormed the meeting before. Here is the revised statement: 

"We are a catalyst for improved quality of service to the public. In order to deliver concretely on our missions, we shift our thinking to improving our interactions and processes to provide more value to the public to be an economic driver for the nation. By collaborating with the public, we better understand their needs and provide efficient and effective solutions through innovation. We will be a leader in trust and accountability as we use new methods and proven practices to create a culture of excellence and data to drive decision-making." 

* ACTIVITY: Principles
	* Amy synthesized findings from the workshop and presented the team with 15 different principles. Amy asked each person to pick their top 5 principles, and added to/change/merge principles as needed. Here are the resulting principles:

1. Collaborative work with partners inside and outside government (7)
2. Redraft: Identifying and using new methods. Which deliver more effective and efficient results (Business Process Reengineering) (6)
    1.Old Draft:Effectiveness and efficiency; creating navigable pathways; using existing methods more efficiently; not defaulting to the same way of doing things
3. Continuous improvement, learning curiosity and flexibility (added: embracing change and staying optimistic) (5)
4. Measurable outcomes/goals and ROI; results oriented and evaluation (5)
5. Diversity (thought, visible, LGBT, perspectives) and inclusion (added: fairness) (4)
6. Communication and sharing (3) 
7. Redraft: Keeping the customer in the middle of service design
	1. Oriignal draft: Providing citizen (agency, team) value; clear articulation of value proposition (3) 
8. Prototyping and experimentation; being okay with failure (2) 
9. Holistic thinking. Think about problems you’re trying to solve and the outcomes you hope to achieve from the beginning. (2)
10. Innovation is not a one-size-fits all approach--can be small or big; Systemic change is long and slow; Innovation is a bit squishy; innovation thinking freely on how we get from A to Z, no rigid thinking. (2)
11. Holding people accountable for innovating (1)

## Alpha Toolkit + Training Scope


## Toolkit current status


## Roles + Responsibilities


## Next steps