# Better Government Leadership team kickoff

In attendance:
* Brooke Dine (NIH)
* Michelle Ramsden (DOJ, PMF)
* John Elliott (State, Foreign Service Officer)
* Lisa Nelson (GSA, PM for Open Opportunities)
* Carolyn Flemings-Williams (White House Leadership Development Fellow, OMB, Lead--Community Solutions CoP)

Not present: 
* Tammy Tippie (OMB Performance Improvement Council)

We did a round-robin on intros for everyone. Affliiations noted above. 

# Roles/Responsibilities

In matrix below is the list of the different teams we're creating. Right now, we're starting with the Advisory Board and leadership teams. The Advisory Board will meet every other week, and those are actionable workshops where we'll get feedback from the larger group/crowdsource on the path forward. It is meant to be divergent thinking, expanding on and getting input on how to build this. The Leadership team then takes this input and converges on specific courses of action. 

We're getting teams kicked off in the next month to start developing content/sorting through what has already been done.  

| **Team** | **Responsibilities** | **Level of Effort** | **Notes** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Advisory Board** | Give focused feedback on progress of leadership teamBuild support for Better Government Strategy | 2 hrs every other week, recurring mtg. |   |
| **Leadership** **(5 people)** | Define &quot;better government&quot;, set core values/principles, and determine stakeholder universeSet direction of content and designCreate early stage wins to secure success for Program | 4 hrs/wk (10%) | [Open Opp Posting](https://openopps.digitalgov.gov/tasks/625) |
| **Design/ Information Architecture** | Develop and document personas for users of the toolkit leveraging documentation from the human centered design workshop and additional interviews, as necessary. Research target audience/user needsOrganize content including creation of navigation, wireframing, labeling, and data modeling. | 8 hrs/wk (20%) | [Open Opp Posting](https://openopps.digitalgov.gov/tasks/628) |
| **Content** | Take 75% draft versions of reports and convert them into executive summariesResearch/structure new content areas for developmentDevelop new content that is identified through the exploration process | 8 hrs/wk (20%) | Recruit in mid April |
| **Development** | Develop a schedule for development, testing and launch and future product releases.Ensure that critical milestones in the schedule are met.Strive to use common capabilities in creative and innovative ways to solve configuration problems and conditions associated with satisfying requirements. | 8 hrs/wk (20%) | Recruit end April |

# Expectations

Amy outlined her key values/core beliefs that help govern the way she works (See below), and how she'd like to operate. Opened the floor for any other expectations. 

BE INCLUSIVE
You never know where the best ideas will come from. I strive to provide opportunities where people with various skillsets can participate, whether it’s telling stories, spotting opportunities/white space, coming up with great ideas or working towards a solution that blows the other ones out of the water. I constantly seek the space where everyone’s contributions are valued and heard. 

LEAD WITH MEANING
Connection is powerful. Whether it’s connecting through a story or simply connecting the dots, I’m always looking for new ways to drive connection. Finding the meaning behind WHY you’re doing something is crucial to getting to where you want to go, because without that you lack direction.

I search for projects, products, and people that help add meaning to my own life. 

COLLABORATE TO INNOVATE
Collaboration is key to creating better ideas, helping an idea take flight, and maintaining happy and ambitious teams. I’m eternally receptive to new perspectives on how to improve my projects/products. Giving and receiving feedback comes naturally to me, as someone else’s perspective may give me insights that I may never imagined before. 

SOLVE THE RIGHT PROBLEM
I find most people jump to a solution without first truly understanding a problem. Solving a problem is like peeling back the layers of an onion. You may see that there’s something in the surface level, but more often than not, those ideas have many levels that have yet to be unearthed. I love to roll up my sleeves, get my hands dirty and seek the true root to a problem. Rather than jumping to ideas, I start by understanding the problem in greater depth, using various tools that I’ve collected through Design Thinking and facilitation. 

LISTEN
A consultant at its heart is “a trusted advisor.” Being a trusted advisor means fully understanding what your clients’ wants and needs are, which is only achieved through active listening and asking lots of questions. When a client feels that they are truly being heard is where trust and relationships are built. 

HAVE A PROCESS
As a systems thinker, I am always taking what I learn and applying that to fit it into a process that will help me be more efficient in the future. Putting a process in place also helps you to communicate your vision later when you need it most. 

GET THINGS DONE
After Hurricane Katrina I served a year as a Team Leader in AmeriCorps and took a pledge to “get things done for America.” I may no longer be in AmeriCorps, but that sentiment still lingers.  I work hard because I get satisfaction in a job well done and putting my all into working towards a common goal.

## Expectations/goals from the group

* Carolyn asked how we will incorporate the [Comprehensive Plan for Reforming the Federal Government and Reducing the Federal Civilian Workforce](https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/files/omb/memoranda/2017/M-17-22.pdf) into our thinking/work. Amy mentioned this is something that we'll need to figure out as a team/group. 
* Question around places to connect. There is an email listserv, a Slack channel, and also the GitHub site for cross-team collaboration. 
* Others expressed a question regarding timeline of effort. Amy mentioned the high level release schedule of Alpha in early Summer, Beta in Fall, and Live in the Winter. Want to have a more detailed (Tick Tock) like schedule where we know what is going to be done week by week/sprint by sprint. Leadership team will need to convene when Amy is back from vacation on what that schedule might be like. 

# Keep Doing/Stop Doing/Start Doing

Amy asked for feedback from the group in the form of a retrospective technique from Agile development. 

## Keep Doing
* Meet regularly
* Keep reach out beyond the usual suspects
* Outreach to other groups
* Keep up with tick tock idea

## Stop Doing
* Get organized before we start to reach out to larger groups (it's ambiguous to us, so we should flesh that out more).
* What are we building--how soon will we see something? What are the milestones we have.
* What are our goals?

## Start Doing
* Onboarding document (Brooke offered to help create)
* Defining the roadmap of what we need
* What are our unmet needs
* How can we have repeatable practices--Tech Tools, Techniques, Practice + Methods
* Not reinventing the wheel with each engagement

# Next Steps

* We all decided we should have a half-day session where we figure out WHAT we're building and then what's the timeline, to be held in two weeks. Amy is OOO next week. 
* Brooke and Michelle will facilitate the next Advisory Board meeting, where we'll focus on user needs/desires and outcomes.

Amy:
* Send to Brooke content for the onboarding document for her to compile 
* Send a doodle poll/follow up email to leadership team.

Brooke: 
* Create onboarding document with what Amy sends
* Work with Michelle to create the slides, agenda for May 9 meeting
