# Better Government Leadership Planning Session Notes

## Agenda
Agenda: 
1. Greetings and Update - Amy					                                    12:30 - 1:00

2. Individual Brainstorming - Lisa: What do we want to deliver by Sept 30? (Sticky notes)				            1:00 - 1:10

3. Group discussion - Lisa					                                        1:10 - 1:30
	
4. Voting - Lisa Goal is to come with top 5 -7 things to work on	                        1:30 - 2:00

5. Break								                                                    2:00 - 2:20

6. Site/prototype Demo - Amy					                                      2:20 - 2:50

7. Product Breakdown - Lisa: Individual brainstorm of all tasks that need to get done - sticky notes	2:50 - 3:00
  Group discussion and categorization	
  remove duplicates					                                              3:00 - 3:30
			
8. Break								                                                    3:30 - 3:45
9. Timeline/Milestone Mapping Monthly/bi-weekly?					                  3:45 - 4:30
10. Assign responsibilities					                                        4:30 - 4:45

Facilitated by: Lisa Nelson, Open Opportunities Program Manager, General Services Administration
Attendees: 
* Lisa Nelson, GSA
* Amy Wilson, Better Government Program Manager, GSA
* Tammy Tippie, Executive Director, Performance Improvement Council
* Sydney Smith-Heimbrock, Executive Director, Lab @ OPM
* Brooke Dine, Manager, National Library of Medicine, NIH
* Michelle Ramsden, Presidential Management Fellow, DOJ

Not present:
* Sanjay Kolani, Executive Director, HHS IDEA Lab

## Update -- Amy 

Amy went over the following in [this presentation](https://github.com/18F/better-government/blob/master/leadership-meetings/%5B5.10%5D%20Better%20Government%20Leadership%20Meeting.pdf):
* Dichotomies we've been considering
* User and Mission Assumptions
* Six Better Government Principles
* Content Structure Updates

### Comments in this section:
* Should we consider project managers a key user? 
* We should find our key allies that could push out our updates and for marketing and communications (e.g. government innovation labs)
* We should be mindful of linking too closely with the Office of American Innovation
* Dichotomy of Indvidual vs. System --> we should look at complexity science to inform our thinking. Concepts of emergence, forward momentum
* Things to think about: 
	* How to build out tolerance for risk taking and failure
	* Link success to performance management and long term strategy
	* How can we sustain this through budget?

## September 30 Build Out Brainstorm

Answered the question: what should we build before September 30? Each person wrote ideas on sticky notes. Below are the groupings that resulted:

### Virtual Toolkit (Eight Votes)
* Website (GitHub)
* Virtual toolkit with: how to pitch, execute, sustain ideas
* Rules and Regulation section
* Stories with similar arc (idea, engagement, result)
* Bibliography of resources to leave/learn @ innovation
* Knowledge repository by steps in design cycle
* Cross reference of "problem types" not just subject matter experts
* Toolkit examples, resources, contacts
* Web-based toolkit with innovative approaches, links to offices/folks doing innovation, resources

### Community of Practice (Seven votes)

* Connect and communicate with Community of Practice
* CoPs for each persona
* Community of Practice
* Problem-solving interactive resource (cross-agency problems--bring people together with coach
* Mechanism connecting folks to COP, however nascent (listserv, online, Slack)

### Governanace Plan (Eight Votes) 
Note: Draft plan on September 30, Final end of 2017

* Governance Plan
* Marketing/Comms Plan
* Content Management Plan
* Ambassadors to push out content
* Agency/topic content areas

### Landscape Analysis (Five Votes)

* Links to exising (agency) domains
* One-pagers that link this effort to others--like employee engagement
* Integration with other organizational efforts (e.g. Data Cabinet, Evidence Commission, Etc.)
* At least ways to connect folks to training
* Federal crowdsource training on HCD methods (touch base with Andres Lazo from 18F)
* Work with Digital Gov U and 18F (formerly Learn)

### Long Term Strategies 

* Training on how to use the toolkit (Two votes)
* Agency contacts responsible for Innvation (Two votes)
* Cost Savings Ticker (Two Votes)
* Mentoring Circles (One vote)
* Mentor matching
* Cadence of interactions for community members (Calendar)
* Mentors at each agency
* Funding grants for setting up labs or collaboration environments at agencies
* Directory of feds and their skills and interests
* Innovation Day @ GSA
* Create an "Innovation Coaching" service as part of the Federal Coaching Network
* Blog posts by Content managers
* Guidelines for Chief Innovation Officers

### Low-hanging Fruit
* "One minute manager" videos on specific challenges
* Mini routines for managers to use "everyday" (Tammy Tippie has this)

### Principles
* All of this should be available to individuals not already in the innovation community
* Partnerships with other agencies (leadership)

### Comments in this Section
* We're working with a lot of systems thinkers.
* Create a cadence of interactions with community managers (what's going to happen)
* Brooke: we should have a go-to person in each agency/POC or on each topic area
* Use Open Opportunities to fill out profiles of people in the innovation space
* Break down personas by groups
* Create support groups and space and time for innovation--need tools
* Rule and Regulations site: There are myths on what you can/can't do
* Which stories have similar arcs? Can we get videographers/photographers
* Community Solutions (900 Federal staff) has Innovation Exchanges on strategies on relationship building, what are the outcomes on the ground. Also discuss collaboration on the bigger picture, how to leverage other stakeholders
* Johns Hopkins Public-Private Partnership guidebook--can we use that?
* Is it possible to change mindsets? Justin Herman is working on a problem (how to bring AI into the Federal government, across agencies). That role should be a mixture of coaching and working together. Could we do this every quarter? This is not just design--it's for everyone.
* Sydney: We're (OPM) is creating an awards program for people within the government on actions people have done in design-led innovation.
* What can we do on a monthly basis to come and innovate.
* Let's create a GANTT chart

## Identify Tasks for Four Top Areas
We narrowed down the top four areas for exploration and identified our next steps. Tasks are listed as backlogs for the Toolkit, CoP, Governance Plan, and Landscape Analysis on the [Trello Board here](https://trello.com/b/WTEhZJIy/better-gov-t-leadership-team-tasks)

### Notes from this Section
* Lisa has an open source report that was created for Open Opportunities
* Use Open Opportunities for other non-digital projects like visual design, innovation strategy?
* Can we calculate savings? CAP Goals, WH goals, EST(?) measures, PMA goals
* Trump Executive Order: Work with agency councils, organizations, NAPA(?) and good government
* How do we measure organizational impact of innovations? Specific projects, efficiencies. Tammy Tippie shoudl tell the Navy story on Data and Analytics
* Look at content areas: what do we have and where is it?
* Communities where innovation is happening--can we do a survey? Tammy has Survey tool with 24 questions that can help us map across agencies to see the value to them and to their networks.
* Should we write an OMB Memo to Depty Secretaries, PMC meetings to push to agencies? Generally, consensus is to keep this grassroots.
* We should have a map of different icons with different organizations: Federal agency, cross-agency groups, training providers, groups that contribute to organizations?
* Get groups to co-design with us. Create a social network analysis grassroots.
* Amy has a group out of NJ with a former head of IBM that is doing some interesting work in visualizing innovation ecosystems, using patent data. Should connect with them to outline the ecosystem.
* CoP kickoff relationships. Tammie mentioned there is a database from the customer perspective that is owned by the government, but we don't acutally use this content. We should use that data somehow. It aggregates customer service data (company is called Granicus). Should also talk to the USAGov Team.
* Sydney: Can we do service design for the American poeple? LInk this to understand each of our interactions with the public.
* Community of Practice (Gov't Wide), Kickoff ambassador community, toolkit should have overview, case studies, lock down part of site. 

## Team Roles and Responsibilities

* Leadership team
  * Sets the vision and roadmap for the community
* Content Lead
  * Determines the content areas (HCD, Data, Community Solutions, Lean/iCorps, Agile, Organizational Change)
* COP Management Team
  * Plan events, services/support, trainings
  * Execute with CoP Members
* COP Members
  * Selects one of three tracks: Content, Management, Ambassadors
  * Codesign content
  * Support CoP Events
  * Participate
* Agency Ambassadors
  * Market toolkit
  * Manage registration
  * Manage content clearance 
  
## May/June Timeframe

| Team Name | Lead(s) | May | June |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Leadership Team | Amy |- ID Draft Content  with Domains and Leads →  Conduct codesign with target customer leads <br> - Draft COP Invitation include COP mgmt Team and Toolkit Team → send invitation - ID and draft invite for ambassadors plan kickoff → send invitation  |- Build kickoff tools <br> - Kickoff (June 21st, 12-5 p.m.) Agenda: Pitch goal (Amy), present objectives, walk through timeline and tools, Break out to refine project plans|
| CoP Mgmt | Carolyn/Tammy | Brainstorm ways to get community involved |---|
| Content | Brooke/ Michelle | Co-Design Content Domain with Target Customers |---|
| Ambassadors | Sydney/ Lisa | Brainstorm ways to get community involved |---|
| Landscape Analysis | ALL | Present findings at next leadership meeting |---|

Assumption: All of the teams except leadership team will accept CoP members. Each member can choose one of three tracks: Community Management, Content, or Ambassadors

### Notes from this Section
* We should be purists and "eat our own dog food" we should follow the process that we tell others to follow.
* Content list: do a "sniff test" with our target audiences (3-4 people per audience)
* Set up a Trello board. [Trello Board here](https://trello.com/b/WTEhZJIy/better-gov-t-leadership-team-tasks)
* Big picture, should have leaders for each group, what we need to do, refine the timeline.
* Meetings every other week on the phone (off weeks from workshops)
* Should change the name of the "Advisory Board" workshops to Community of Practice Workshops. Should actually think about creating a real Advisory Board. 
* Kickoff will be June 21st in afternoon.
* We should have a strategic conversation about how do we position ourselves (Dustin from OMB side, PMA conversation). Discussion was that we want to keep it grassroots at first and then discuss later about strategy. 
* Should consider that there is a portion of the toolkit where it's GOVERNMENT ONLY
