# Community of Practice Meeting 

Facilitated by: 
* Brooke Dine, NIH
* Michelle Ramsden, DOJ

In attendance:
* Julia Begley, CFPB
* Pamela Crawford, SSA
* Nikki Tyler, USAID
* Gayle Girod, USAID
* Sydney Smith-Heimbrock, Lab@OPM
* Amy Wilson, GSA
* Melissa Chapman, VACO

Questions: 

Method: have qualitative data across the 
* Generative data--have been talking to customers.
* Capture themes--multiple ideas 
* Possible internal government wiki
* Events they go to, people have great interest in connecting, but they're the same speakers.
* Data science mentorship
* Have regular meetings with other lawyers/people of like backgrounds (Gayle Girod)
* Leverage the network--reach out to people, be more transparent.
* Find spheres of influence and hotspots
* Connect to each other over alliances
  * Specialty or functional area
  * People who want to make a difference
  * Listen to feedback of ideas
  * Connect people with like minds
* Model of cohorts--people are connected in a membership model
* Have we talked to UK or Austrailia? What have they done? How do they disseminate information, what are the best practices and lessons learned?

## Empathy Map for ourselves

### What does she think and feel?
* Sydney: Consolidating, Sustaining and ??
* Next iteration: Design-led innovation
* What is our coherent message to the Office of American Innovation
* What is our value proposition?
* "I have so much I want to do"
* I'm worries I'm not going to succeed-that I'm going to fail. 
* Worry: too warm and fuzzy
* Tension between work and that I want to spend my time creating vs. making 
* Cacophony of ideas
* Leading by consensus
* Why is there such resistance to innovation?
* How can I use evidence/data to show people that investing in innovation is worthwhile (be it financial or human resources)?
* Collaboration is really important to me -- and trying to bring in innovation creates a rub with that if other folks don't agree.
* I think my agency may not be receptive to innovation unless it can improve our operations.  Operations is the agency focus, so most all innovation must focus on this.  Concerns include not knowing enough to create an innovative model to be implemented without lots of time, effort and stakeholder investment to get it up to par.

### What does she see?
* Colleagues trying to innovate with me or stifle innovation
* Sees not a very diverse workforce, wanting diversity and inclusion
* People leaving and going to private sector
* Passionate people
* People around her are jaded and cynical
* I see friends in the private sector being encourage to innovate -- and I feel this at my team because it's the best. 
* Unlike the typical stereotype of government employees not having enough work, my current workload is sufficient to keep 3-4 people busy.  In one way it’s an honor that my supervisors trust me with so much, but because I see everyone in our component scrambling to meet deadlines, and am myself, I have to try to build an environment or safe pocket of space to initiate conversations on innovation.  People are just trying to get their current workloads under control, so I have to figure out how to sell innovation as an improvement in their efficiency and effectiveness, that their time investment will pay off.

### What does she Say and Do?
* I'm pitching my idea
* Always looking for the next big thing
* Talk to colleagues to think of the best way to tackle new innovations
* Openness, new people involved
* Listening
* Reliance on research
* Her behavior is becoming jaded -- why bother?
* Staying positive and focused on the end goal, I try to use prime opportunities to sell innovation.  My behavior has changed in that I’m more strategic, due to experience with push back, and realize I may only have one chance to make a sell on innovation.

### What does she hear?
* "I wish I had your job" or "Your job is easy"
* "We don't think it's going to work"
* "I can't innovate"
* "I wish I had more time"
* "We've always done it this way"
* "Innovation is sexy"
* Silence (from administration, leadership)
* Just Do It
* How much does it cost?
* Innovation is not a "one-size-fits-all approach"
* Super supportive boss in this
* Hear negative feedback from other colleagues outside of the team
* Stay in our own lanes and don’t worry about things that are above our pay grades.

### What are her Gains?
* I want to succedd in my career, get promoted

### What are her Pains?
* Fear that this will all fail and I'll look like an idiot
* Frustrations: not enough people understand how to innovate
* frustration: Not working together towards common goal
* Obstacles: Bureaucracy

## Feedback on Sam Chen
* Attracting outside talent is iffy becuase of current environment
* Sam will probably be forced to retain team--not being able to kill dead weight 
* Desire to tap into innovators in government
* Managing engagement of team--not changing much @ a personal level
* Trying to get team to work effectively. 
* Want to raise morale by upping engagement
* Data-driven and risk tolerance move more right.
* Probably more risk averse now.
* All people answered to human capital person on team--person to support 
* Looking for ways to know what to say and who to say it to. Want better relationships and status

## Feedback on Angela
* How long is she in the federal government?
* Sydney observes three groups:
 * Those who come in and out of government
 * Those who are here for a short time and won't come back
 * Government lifers
* Mindsets of ^^ are different 
 * Lifers don't want to risk retirement
 * Most likes connecting and are ambitious

## Feedback for Kelly
* Not personal--single, no kids for benefits
* Mission focus been in government
* Motivated to serve citizens with innovation. Good government but feels like everyone is against her. 
* Wants to stay in government
* Up Ambition on sliding scale and Data Driven 
* Focus on goal and outcomes. Problems are based on a person
* Organization Lab vs their own people in the community to help each other
* People or government or both
* Looks at a personal level the system

## Additional Notes
* Crowdsourcing how to change the system through innovation
* Mission and user outcomes
* Infrastructure building, community disciplines
* Validation and what has been done
* Stories what has worked 
* Learning and perfecting the process 
* Buy in from leadership and cadence 
* People wnat to do things better--they feel isolated
* Sustain change--how do we sustain and deliver as a validator and supporter
* Act: How do we pitch ideas--how to make pitch without a huge change
 * Do the work to updates and tools
* Sustain things beyond resarch--make this a new institution
* Are we focusing on the individual or the system?
* Cultures of Innovation--how to fit into President's Management Agenda. Systemic issues: HR, Acquistions, IT
* Clarify the message:
 * Tell the story
 * The system to change 
 * Support enablishing internal passion for workforce
 * Outreach efforts--18 Months to support, what's the longer-term strategy?
* System-level approach. Top down 
* Goal: System is:
 * Leadership agency is accountable, move barriers and embrace better government through innovation
 * Above all, the senior leaders should remove barriers to innovation for the users of the system. Should show how we solve problems and experiment
* Should get Andrea Ippolito (VA Center for Innovation) to come in and tell the story of how she built a culture of innovation. We can interview her and also create a blog post 

## Value Proposition Canvas (Customer Segment) for the Mid-Level Career Specialist

### Customer Jobs 
* Navigating change to protect her organization 
* Align to President's Agenda without losing her integrity
* Wants to build trust and gain status, protect and expand power 
* Validation of effort put in
* Find someone else who has done innovation successfully
* Executives needs organizational security to continue to be satisfied
* Delivering value and is valued in status
* Functional job: setting and balancing/fighting for the budget 

### Pain Points
* Making mistakes that become visible to higher ups
* Not meeting deadlines or targets
* Staffing can't get rid of people (especially ones who aren't innovative)
* Misaligned priorities: staff time being wasted 
* Getting things done and resistance towards it
* Unknowns is keeping them awake at night
* Barriers to adoption, upfront investment costs 
* Dilemma of leading people
* Lack of a sense of urgency
* Strategy and outcomes is the process
* You're part of the system--your brain changes
* No sense of ownership
* Risk: Making mistakes--you can't accept mistakes

### Gains 
* More power, status
* You as head of an organization get and protect power
* Happy place is more time money and effort
* How do we delight? High quality, have to do MVP to keep moving. Do something good, not shoddy
* What is meaningful impact that delights?

