# Community of Practice Meeting 

Facilitated by: 
* Brooke Dine, NIH
* Michelle Ramsden, DOJ

In attendance:
* Julia Begley, CFPB
* Pamela Crawford, SSA
* Nikki Tyler, USAID
* Gayle Girod, USAID
* Sydney Smith-Heimbrock, Lab@OPM
* Amy Wilson, GSA
* Melissa Chapman, VACO

Questions: 

Method: have qualitative data across the 
* Generative data--have been talking to customers.
* Capture themes--multiple ideas 
* Possible internal government wiki
* Events they go to, people have great interest in connecting, but they're the same speakers.
* Data science mentorship
* Have regular meetings with other lawyers/people of like backgrounds (Gayle Girod)
* Leverage the network--reach out to people, be more transparent.
* Find spheres of influence and hotspots
* Connect to each other over alliances
  * Specialty or functional area
  * People who want to make a difference
  * Listen to feedback of ideas
  * Connect people with like minds
* Model of cohorts--people are connected in a membership model
* Have we talked to UK or Austrailia? What have they done? How do they disseminate information, what are the best practices and lessons learned?

## Empathy Maps for ourselves

### What does she think and feel?
* Sydney: Consolidating, Sustaining and ??
* Next iteration: Design-led innovation
* What is our coherent message to the Office of American Innovation
* What is our value proposition?
* "I have so much I want to do"
* I'm worries I'm not going to succeed-that I'm going to fail. 
* Worry: too warm and fuzzy
* Tension between work and that I want to spend my time creating vs. making 
* Cacophony of ideas
* Leading by consensus

### What does she see?
* Colleagues trying to innovate with me or stifle innovation
* Sees not a very diverse workforce, wanting diversity and inclusion
* People leaving and going to private sector
* Passionate people
* People around her are jaded and cynical

### What does she Say and Do?
* I'm pitching my idea
* Always looking for the next big thing
* Talk to colleagues to think of the best way to tackle new innovations
* Openness, new people involved
* Listening
* Reliance on research

### What does she hear?
* "I wish I had your job" or "Your job is easy"
* "We don't think it's going to work"
* "I can't innovate"
* "I wish I had more time"
* "We've always done it this way"
* "Innovation is sexy"
* Silence (from administration, leadership)
* Just Do It
* How much does it cost?
* Innovation is not a "one-size-fits-all approach"

### What are her Gains?
* I want to succedd in my career, get promoted

### What are her Pains?
* Fear that this will all fail and I'll look like an idiot
* Frustrations: not enough people understand how to innovate
* frustration: Not working together towards common goal
* Obstacles: Bureaucracy
